In English, there are these two words — Marketer,
Marketeer.
Many dictionaries say they are the same, you
can use them interchangeably..!
What do you think?!
For me, though, the “..eer” ending always
reminds me of words like “Commandeer”
(it is a negative connotation — “take
possession of something by force”..) and
“Racketeer” (“a person who engages in
fraudulent and dishonest dealings”)…
So, I prefer the word “Marketer”..
Anyway, who is a Marketer, and how should
that person Market?
A person has highlighted it so beautifully,
and that is what we are going to see today!
Namaste!
Marketing it…
Marketing needs some good marketing, says
this author!
It has got a bad name, it has lost its original
purpose and intent.
It needs some marketing!
Who is he?
Let us see!
Firstly, take this shoe.
This Nike shoe.
Nike Air is the brand.
If Nike shoes went into the hotel business,
.. if, hypothetically, we know how it is going
to look like.
It will be extremely comfortable.
Extremely trendy, stylish.
High technology will be squeezed into it somehow,
somewhere.
Cost would be skyhigh..
But, if Nike enters the hotel business too,
the Nike brand value will permeate.
On the other hand, if we were to go to the
Hyatt Hotels, and look around, take it in,
… and, just guess, imagine, how would Hyatt
Shoes look like?
Do you think you will be able to identify
the characteristics?
They call it the “Blind Test”.
Blind tasting.
Two bottles.
Both having red-colored fizzy drinks.
Which one is Coke, which one is Thumbs Up?
Remember that ad?
The Blind Test.
Do you think Hyatt will pass it?
Any up-market, seven-star hotel, looks the
same..
like any other hotel.
Hyatt has a logo, Nike has a brand..!
Seth Godin crystallises it thus..
Pay attention to this long sentence, I have
colored in some words too.
Brand Value — It is just the “Sum total
of how much extra people will pay, or how
often they choose, the expectations, the memories,
stories and relationships of one brand over
the alternatives..”
Letterman had a show on Netflix.
The title itself said, “My next guest needs
no introduction”!
This too is about brand value, I think.
A famous speaker, I was attending his keynote
recently, and the emcee was about to deliver
the introduction about the speaker.
This man came on stage and said, “If a speaker
needs an introduction, he’s not good enough
to be on stage.
If a speaker is good enough to be on stage,
he needs no introduction!”
That, again, is Brand Value!
Once upon a time, during the Industrial Age,
it was all about “I have created so many
of these widgets..
Who do I sell it to, who will want to buy
more of it, who will want to benefit from
it..”
That era has well and truly ended.
Today, the approach has to be agile.
What do our customers want, what do they need,
what are they looking for, what is their unvoiced
need..?
They are feeling it, but they are not vocalising..
What is THAT need?
That is where Bruce Lee chipped in with “Be
like water”!
That agile approach.
It is not about making MORE of what you have.
But, it is about making what you have BETTER,
so that it suits the changing needs of the
customer.
Do you see the difference?
Also, if you are in the business of building
software, ethereal stuff, you have no excuse
to not listen to the customer!
Because, you can keep changing..
It is not like a car that can be changed only
once every two years!
You can change a software product twice in
one day!
Are you doing it?!
We have encountered the “Start with Why”
credo many times before.
Today, the customers, they don’t want to
buy your product.
They want to know how you build it, and WHY
you even started building it in the first
place.
That WHY.. they rip the product apart until
they get down to the WHY.
Every product is wrapped in brown, comes in
an Amazon box.
What they want to know is what is your WHY,
and is that aligned with their own WHY.
So, how do we find out the purpose?
As a marketer?
As a product envisioner?
This Venn diagram can help.
On one side, we have “Who you are”.
What can you do?
Who are you?
What are your characteristics?
What are your likes and dislikes?
What are your strengths and weaknesses?
On one side..
On the other side is “Who you serve”..
Who are you targeting?
Who do you want to do it for?
Who do you want to serve?
Who you are..?
In that overlap is “What you stand for”.
You need to stand for something!
That is core belief.
That is you WHY.
And that is your starting point.
This is Marketing — is the name of the book.
Seth Godin has authored it.
He markets marketing.
That is all I can say.
I want to pick two beautiful examples from
this book.
He starts by saying, “Stop being average
salespeople, doing average things, to sell
average stuff to average people..”
Who is this person?
Music Teacher.
Teaches how to play the piano.
But, for whom? To any kid that comes in?
Or, to kids who want to excel in an examination?
Or, to kids who want to become musicians?
Or to kids of parents who want to inculcate
discipline through music?
Who?
For everybody?
Are you going to teach music to everybody?
No!
You need to slice and dice!
To narrowcast!
There is this beautiful poem by Bharathiyaar
in Tamil.
The translation in English goes like,
“Always Foraging For Food,
Trivial Talks That Do No Good,
Suffering Badly At The Heart,
Actions Hurting Others A Lot,
Growing Old With Greying Hair,
Dying A Victim To Death Unfair,
You Thought My Life Will End In Vain,
Like Those Clowns Whom I Disdain?”
Imagine as if you are marketing?
The kind of marketing that Seth Godin hates
and criticises?
You will see a lot of similarities between
the two!
You can’t be that average person doing average
stuff to sell average products to average
people!
Get out of that lock in!
What should you do then?
You have to do work that matters..
To whom? To people who care!
There is a small group of people who long
for you, who look forward to interacting with
you, who are waiting for you to give them
their next thrill, .. for those people, can
you do work that matters?!
That is the line..
That is a marketer’s credo.
He says, take any two axes.
And they should not be related.
One should not be influencing the other.
In this case, there is “Security” and
there is “Speed”.
Assume you want to transport diamonds, across
cities.
What will you do?
If you are focused on security, yes, diamonds,
and speed of delivery, you will probably go
for FedEx!
Okay, you are not bothered about speed, but
you are bothered about security..
What will you do now?
Probably a three-day-courier..
DTDC.
You are not bothered about security, but you
need instant delivery, probably you would
opt for a bike messenger..
place it in a box and send it over!
You are neither in a hurry, nor are you obsessed
about safety, what would you do?
You would perhaps place it in an envelope
and stick a stamp on it, and be done with
it!
There are always polarising edges..
Pick any two axes..
He gives some examples!
Is it going to be Speed?
Price?
Performance?
Pick one!
Pick one more!
Any two axes!
And there, try and place all your competitors..
Some quadrants will already be crowded, but
some places in those four quadrants will be
empty, and that is where you have to start
your product.
Because that, is an underserved community.
If every quadrant is already crowded, probably
look for other axes!
He gives a lot of examples, you can come up
with your own.
But the point is, pick two orthogonal axes,
and having picked, identify your competitors,
place them, and there will be an empty spot,
try and build a moat around that empty spot.
Isn’t that cool?!
He also goes on to say that customers have
three problems.
The first one is, they can’t say whether
it is a need or a want..
Whether they need a painkiller or a vitamin.
It is the marketer’s job to identify that,
the differentiation, and help them with it.
The second problem that customers have?
They are terrible at inventing new ways to
solve their wants..
They know they need something.
They know they desire something.
But, what new ways exist?
What new approaches can they invent?
They would never be able to tell.
And, that is why they are consumers, they
are not product creators.
As a product creator, as an envisioner, as
a visionary, and as a marketer, what is your
job?
Invent new ways to satisfy their current needs
and wants..
And, there is a third problem that customers
have.
They don’t want the same thing.
A marketer can’t hope to make something
en masse, and hope to give the same thing
to everybody!
That would just mean they simply haven’t
understood the Geoffrey Moore chasm yet!
There will be early adopters.
There will be laggards.
You will have to build different things for
different people.
And, probably, you will have to stop building
something for everybody.
You will have to identify a narrow niche,
and build something world-class for that niche.
These are three discoveries he says customers
simply don’t understand.
I hope marketers do!
We were talking about “Everybody doesn’t
want the same thing” just now..
But, he adds a small correction too!
An addendum!
Beautifully!
Remember this movie?
Inside Out?
Emotions?
He says, “Customers don’t buy your products.
Stop being deluded by that..
It is not for your product, your widget, not
for your lipstick, not for your bottle of
perfume, not for your iphone.
No!
They are coming for some sort of emotion to
be boosted..
To be added.
To be extended.
To be probably highlighted.
How many emotions are even there?
Can you even list them?” — he challenges
us.
He calls it the “Basket of Desires and Dreams”.
And he hits us with a list of examples.
Choose from these emotions..
Are there any that have been left out?
Anything not in this list?
Probably you will be able to add one or two.
You won’t be able to add fifty more.
Because, right from the Stone Age, for Man,
emotions are a small number of things only.
They want a community perhaps, control perhaps,
they want freedom, they want friendship, they
want safety, they may even want revenge, but,
.. it stays within this emotions-basket.
Whoever they are, whatever they wish for,
will fit right in.
So, stop obsessing about your product.
Look at the emotional need that a person wants
fulfilled and invent new ways for those old
emotions to be fulfilled.
And, THAT IS YOUR PRODUCT!
That’s it!
What is your product?
Your product is a new way for your old emotion
to be satisfied!
That’s it!
Understand that!
As a closing thought, I want to play this
short video first for you.
1984, Apple commercial..
I am sure most of you will recognise this
ad.
Remember that scene?
That lady running in, breaking that huge controlling
scene?
Apple won the day in 1984 because of one single
purpose.
Lee Clow, the person who designed this ad,
has spoken about it too.
He has said, “If you don’t stand for something,
you will fall for anything”.
And, customers won’t like you.
Because, they are looking for the why.
I hope you got the message, we will meet again
soon, thank you!